so I like to start with this quote so
that you have an understanding of what
motivates my work I am really about the
liberation of the black body and in that
I find that that liberation of the black
body so that we don't have to viscerally
feel the oppressive forces around us
that we feel daily I don't want anyone
to feel it alright so that is my work is
really in order to liberate the black
body I'm looking at mechanisms to
liberate everyone and in this pain that
exists for us there is also this joy
that I'm always reminded this is my
mother and she is living with cancer
right now she's the most bravest person
I ever knew she's without chemo or any
other traditional medicine and she is
able to stay in this vibrant wonderful
place of joy and so that is what
ultimately we want to come back to you
for me I think that that is my goal for
everyone and that's why I call myself a
pleasure activists I want every moment
of every day to be pleasurable for me
for everyone and I want that pleasure to
resonate into the future so this is
beyond sexual sex or kink or anything
like that if this is so much deeper we
want to have the option to choose
pleasure and I want more of us to choose
that pleasure because then we're happier
and we treat people better so I use
afrofuturism as this portal for
attaining liberation after futurism in a
very basic way of describing it is a way
of talking about the black experience
using science fiction/fantasy magical
realism horror we look at spiritual
practices mythologies legends invisible
histories from Africa and African
Diaspora and beyond
and we look at science and technology
and its intersection with race this is
an amazing artist by the way he's on
instagram you definitely want to follow
him he did this work actually for black
panther so you know for over 15 years
I've been curating and for the past
maybe ten years I've been curating
afro-futurist cultural production and
the reason I say cultural projection
because I I just carried everything it
doesn't really matter what I love it all
and in that process of really diving
deep into something that started off as
a hobby for me ever futurism was just
this thing that i knew i was coined in
96 I found out about it in like 97 98
and it was just as a hobby and it became
something that I know has these real
concrete ways to heal us and this is why
it attracts so many different types of
people and out of these years of being
in contact with this wonderful material
I decided to put together a list of
principles because I want people to
understand that this is more than an art
movement this is more than a cultural
movement as an afro futurist you live it
every day you embody it this is not
something that you just experience and
then you go on about your day you let it
change you and you let it change your
perspective on this world
hopefully you develop a better
relationship to the black body a more
expansive relationship with the black
body which I hope will create a more
expansive healthier relationship with
your own body and your own world and
reality so it's really about shifting
these realities so that we can create
new futures and new destinies so I
started off with radical love you gotta
you gotta have that in and everything at
all times and that this is probably the
trickiest part radical love means going
over and beyond conventional ways of
loving someone right
you shot and killed my son but you are
living in a colonized state and you're
depressed and so I still have love for
you that kind of radical love that's
tough
and we're always evolving and working
towards that right we don't have to do
that today thankfully ancestral
grounding is so important to me I think
with all I saw this yesterday you know
one thing that after futurism does it
really grounds us and creates a new
relationship to the earth and to the
cosmos
which we have been intentionally
separated from it doesn't matter what
your background is because of the
industrial era because of capitalism
they had to separate you more and more
and more so that you're just become a
laborer and a worker it is the
spirituality that centers us and that
connects us with other human beings and
it's and our ancestors that inform our
reality in the present one thing about
afrofuturism time is a construct it
starts breaking down so it's no longer
linear past present future just going
that way futures and the now so is the
past it is this wonderful
multi-dimensional dance that happens and
as a result I always ask that you always
ask about your own work what would the
ancestors say what would the ancestors
say about how you're living today what
would the ancestors say about the work
that you're doing and how you're
servicing your communities in this world
co-creation collaboration I think we
have a deep understanding of that trust
and transparency is something that we're
lacking in this world of course and we
need more of that experimentation is
extremely important it's about the
willing to take risks and to really push
the envelope to see if we can actually
create these utopias that I'm always
dreaming of cooperative economics
and this is where it gets into this next
phase that I'm gonna talk about more but
I really believe that cooperative
economics serves everyone is a really
wonderful way to distribute wealth and
already talked about pleasure is
extremely important resilience I think
this is really the thing that Detroiters
are known for and I've learned so much
about what it means to be resilient by
living in Detroit I returned home eight
years ago and saw how our city
government literally has failed its
residents and refuses to actually
support any of those hyperlocal
ecosystems that are being created to
solve these these problems and instead
penalize a--'s and criminalizes if you
decide to mow a lawn that you will get a
ticket and they will tell you to stop
along that's not yours right of
abandoned house so it's that kind of
resilience of okay so I can't do this
well I'm gonna do this I'm gonna do that
I'm gonna be agile I'm gonna move I'm
gonna accept change
but I'm always always has have this goal
of creating something that is gonna be
healthy for my entire community and
transformation we have to be willing to
evolve and change and grow and that is
super important 228 years what do you
think I'm talking about so one of the
things that I've come to understand is
that the black body as we're seeking
liberation we're constantly distracted
by struggling and being in survival mode
so how can I imagine when I'm working
two jobs and my children are being
shipped 40 minutes away from me to
another school because they shut down
the neighborhood school how do I imagine
any sort of futures how do I even learn
about crypto economics do I have time no
I have no time 228 years it will take
too
128 years for the average black family
to accumulate the wealth of the average
white family in this country 228 years
that is a result of centuries of
economic injustice simply because we
could not participate so when we're
talking about liberation we have to get
into this nitty-gritty part right and
this is me trying my best to figure out
how to implement afrofuturism in a real
way how do i or how do we in a
co-creative matter close this racial
wealth gap and that just close it make
sure it never happens again and make
sure that everyone is prospering at the
exact same time because it's not just
about closing the gap it's about
creating an economy that would never
create this level of harm or violence
ever again so I always ask what what are
the tools to create this Wakanda
you know black panther kind of started
this really wonderful conversation
because now we were able to actually
visually see a black utopia that
actually the entire world is excited
about which is super fresh I mean
usually when you're saying no but when
you're centering the black body people
are like well why is it black or why is
it just for black people or whatever the
hell when every day all day is for
white people every day all day I mean
what we got the trend now I'm so happy
that they're talking about the hotel
shampoo and conditioners there's like
only made for a certain type of hair but
I've been thinking about that often like
I don't know if people really understand
how much they Center the white body and
in in every little aspects of our lives
so you know it's not just really about
just having this wonderful will condo
which I'm down for but in real ways if
I'm in a country where the wealth gap is
228 years and I'm dealing with economic
injustice in this present moment housing
discrimination
the list is long right we're not getting
paid as much as our white colleagues so
on and so forth then what what real
tools can actually kind of just address
it address a corner of that just address
a year of that 28 228 years and this is
why I started getting into blockchain
technology I ran for mayor of Detroit
last summer and in that process I held
co-creation sessions to learn more about
what Detroiters think about issues that
we're facing so I gathered everybody
into my campaign office and presented
the the issue and they range from adult
literacy to expanding the creative
economy addressing air pollution it goes
on and on and we talked about
cryptocurrency so I always wanted to
create a universal basic income to
address the 64 percent poverty rate in
Detroit and that's if you add the
working poor I just want that poverty
cycle to end I don't want it anymore we
got how many billionaires in this world
why do we have poverty so I thought that
okay if Detroit created its own coin
maybe that would strengthen its local
economy and you know and maybe
blockchain technology could create a
more efficient government because
government and these mistakes that
they're making are actually causing the
poverty cycle to continue but honestly I
really didn't know what I was talking
about cuz cryptocurrency black chick
teen blockchain technology is very very
complicated and confusing but I
presented it and when I did I was just
embraced by the blockchain world and the
community in Detroit and it's in
learning more and more about blockchain
technology and the possibilities I came
to understand that in my effort to
decolonize
all of these
Sims and institutions that were never
meant to service black bodies which
matters for an 85-percent black city
that you know we need to figure out a
new system and maybe decentralization
might be that system and so this is just
a list of all the ways to decentralized
right so because they're shutting down
neighborhood schools we need probably a
decentralized education system and
hopefully it would be stronger
curriculum a decentralized autonomous
government we don't know what that
really looks like on a city scale but at
least we have Libre land who's going to
be experimenting with that do you know
about Lea Berlin the micro nation on the
Danube I met the president it was really
awesome anyways it's a really
interesting experiment to watch because
they're going to implement decentralize
justice system a whole decentralize
ecosystem within this micro nation and
we kind of need more of those
experiments so decentralized
communication is really key for us in
Detroit 40% of Detroiters right now have
no access to internet which is a problem
if we want to increase digital literacy
marginalized communities are usually the
last to be invited into a text space in
emerging tech space and I really believe
now we that we don't have to have that
happen anymore we can definitely make
sure that everyone is on board right now
and hopefully they would be innovating
in this space because we need more
diverse voices in the black chain space
especially so this is a mesh network
that's going up through the equitable
internet initiative III that's through
allied media projects if you know allied
media the Allied media conference that
happens every year this is the same
people who put that on the man standing
up there is he room he's my brother
and 12 years ago he created a mesh
network with his friends in his knee
per head and now through eii in five
neighborhoods they're creating mesh
networks so a mesh network is basically
bouncing the internet signal so that
everybody can have free Wi-Fi in that
area essentially and so this is really
important right if you're dealing with a
sixty four percent of poverty rate you
can't afford the internet and also
internet providers are not servicing
certain areas simply because of the
credit score of the area not yours but
the entire area or they just give you
really slow internet so to change and
challenge that we're creating these
wonderful mesh networks everywhere I am
now the chief community officer with vos
Detroit hes is a new block chain at
launched June 10th
it's caused a low buzz if you guys know
about it and you already know about the
buzz and this came out of my experience
being in the block chain community and
part of a really large meetup group
that's just growing day by day and the
CEO was a friend of mine and it was like
I think he'd be really great at that
because I was already putting on talks
to expose especially black people to
blockchain technology and cryptocurrency
I really want to start that conversation
and so now it's my job to teach about
blockchain technology and cryptocurrency
to advocate on behalf of the community
within the company and to create more
business adoption of cryptocurrency but
one important thing that has to happen
is that we have to have a better
understanding of economy in economics
most of us I mean we probably you know
learned about some of it in high school
and and now we're completely
disconnected we don't know how our
global economy actually functions and
why it's functioning that way but we do
know
that it's creating harm and that's every
time I use fiat currency I'm supporting
policies that I most likely do not agree
with but I have no choice I have to eat
I have to pay rent I have to take
transportation I have to live in this
world so you know right now I have a
talk coming up where I'm interviewing
well three artists and a technologist
about alternative economies that they
have created are planning to create and
this is really important to understand
what has already be done has been done
and what can blockchain technology do to
support that so my company
gos Detroit we're a block producer
candidate meaning we are advocating to
produce the blocks for us but the
ultimate mission is to partner with
grassroots organizations so that we can
co-create blockchain solutions to make
their work more efficient we believe in
what Detroit is already doing Detroiters
are extremely innovative and intelligent
and so all we want to do is say hey
here's a tool and please you know let's
figure out how this could help you so
one of the first things that we're
working on is creating a decentralized
app for the mesh networks that are
already being put into neighborhoods to
further support people who want to share
their internet service I just threw that
in there because I can't not throw that
in there it was this is done by dogon
Krieger he is on Instagram definitely
follow him Dogen Krieger this actually
as my launch for my mayoral campaign but
I really do believe that Detroit is the
future because we're a majority of color
City we are very unique this is a very
very
special place it's rare to find a major
city that looks like our demographic and
as a result culturally we are creating
new ways of living and being in an urban
setting in a colonized space so
recurving our own safe space in a
colonized space so there's so much to
learn from Detroit in terms of wherever
you live but what is actually super
exciting is that if we can create
successful community currencies there is
this possibility of people actually
being able to control their own
neighborhoods where they don't have to
be beholden to outside developers or we
don't have to wait for white bodies to
move into their neighborhoods so the
value can go up or all of a sudden
there's a bike lane or you're now
cleaning my street we can have more
control if we can exist outside of this
current economic system and that is the
future that I'm imagining where we can
buy our homes buy that vacant land and
really really craft in a very physical
way our own vision this is my info
please contact me I love talking I love
connecting thank you so much for
listening I appreciate it
[Applause]